- [Instructor] Now, let's go to the terminal
and take a look at what our options are there.
Let's clear up the console here.
Let's take a look at the containers that are running.
There are none, which is good.
What we're going to do is now
we're going to take at the implicit per-container storage.
So I'm going to start up a container,
run in a detached mode,
call it db.
And I'm going to run arungupta/couchbase container.
So the container gets started up for me quickly.
That is cool.
Let's inspect this container here.
It gives me lot of details about what's in the container.
The network, the network settings,
the mount points, the port, et cetera.
What I care about is only the mount point
at this point of time.
How do I get that information?
We can add a switch here.
We can say
- -format
and I can specify pattern here.
I can say, okay, give me all the json
port
.Mounts.
Now, brew is the standard packet manager
that a lot of people use on Mac.
Using brew, you can install the utility called as jq
which allows you to format json.
That's what I've installed here.
Homebrew would work only on Mac,
so what do you do on Linux or Windows box essentially?
Well, I mean, you can look for a similar utility
on a Windows or a Linux box.
Alternatively, give the command without the pipe
and jq command.
The only difference is the json output
will not be pretty printed,
so you will need to really look for the specific output
that we're showing in the command here.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to say jq this.
Now, it shows me the output.
This is only the output from the Mounts.
It says the
destination first of all is opt/couchbase/war.
This is where Couchbase writes.
The driver is local, that is the default one.
Then the source is this directory over here.
How do I see this directory on the host?
For that, we really need to log in to
my Docker for Mac VM.
Let's open up another tab here.
Clear up the screen.
I'm going to refer to a command from my exercise notes.
I'm going to copy this command here
and paste it here.
Let's see what is it doing.
It's saying, I'm going to run a debian container
and I'm going to run it in a privileged mode
because I need access to the VM,
pid=host means enter the process space of the VM
running Docker for Mac.
And sh says to run a shell.
There are a bunch of parameters in the middle.
Now, the key command that I'm running here is
nsenter essentially, that's important to understand.
Let's run this.
Now, we are in Docker for Mac VM
and I'm going to take a look at the volume directory here.
So /var
/lib
/docker
/volumes.
It shows all the volumes that are available over here.
The number of volumes may differ in your case
depending upon how and when you are running this.
Now we're going to go back to our previous tab here.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to say docker stop db.
I stopped the container here.
Once the container is stopped,
let's take a look at this particular directory here.
We looked at the broader volumes directory over there,
copy it here.
Keep it here
and I'm going to say show me the listing of this.
This volume very much exist.
Now have stopped the container here,
go back to this previous tab.
Now I can say docker rm
db.
I can just add a switch called as -v
which will say that remove the associated volume as well.
My container is now removed.
Let's take a look at the volume.
As expected, it does not exist.
It's always convenient and rather recommended to use -v
if you want to get rid of the default volumes
that are created for you.
Now, let's take a look at how can we do
explicit per-container storage.
For that, we're going to use the docker volume command,
docker
volume
create,
and I'm going to give it a name, my_couchbase.
This creates my volume,
docker
volume
ls,
and now you can see the volume is created for me.
If I go back to my Docker for Mac VM
and I say
var/lib/docker/volumes,
you can see my_couchbase
is already created for you over here.
How do I use this volume for running my container?
Let's start up our container this time
and here, we're going to mount the volume.
We're going to say
use
my_couchbase
and map it to really what we call as
/opt/couchbase/var
because that's sort of the volume
where it's actually writing the data.
I'm going to start the container here.
Let's look at the Mounts once again.
This time, you can see rightly
that the destination is opt/couchbase/var
but the source has actually been changed to my_couchbase.
That's pretty cool.
Now, I can dominate the container the same way.
I can say docker
container
rm
- f.
I can brutally remove the container including the volume
and I could say the container name here which is db.
If I do this command here,
if I look at
docker volume
ls,
it still shows the volume over there.
All it has removed is the volume mapping.
So the volume in this case still needs to be
explicitly removed.
So docker volume
rm
my_couchbase.
Let's go back to Docker for Mac VM here.
If I do the listing again, my_couchbase is indeed gone.
All right, let's look at the last part of it,
per-host storage.
What I'm going to do now is I am in this directory, chapter5.
I'm going to make a directory here by the name couchbase.
If I go to couchbase and I look at the listing,
this is a clean directory here.
I'm going to run my container here
and this time,
instead of mapping to
my_couchbase volume,
I'm going to map to the current directory.
Another key part that I want to show here is
I want to map
the ports as well.
This will allow us to access the Couchbase console
and show some changes over there.
Let's run the container here.
Now we can go to browser, and here,
I can say localhost:8091,
it takes a while for the container to come up
so let's go back and check out the logs.
Here, I can say docker
container
logs
db, and follow it along.
Couchbase container comes up in about 25 to 30 seconds,
and that's primarily because
the way we have configured the script to run.
Depending upon the time lag between
when you run the container
and when you try to access the web console,
you may see either a setup screen or a login screen.
Either way, your end result is to see a login screen
and then be able to log in with the credentials
that you are aware of.
Don't panic if you just see the login screen right away
and you don't see the setup screen as shown in the video.
As we expected, it has not configured yet,
but now the REST API has been invoked
and so now we can go back to our browser,
refresh the page here.
Once again, my login is administrator,
password is password,
and I log in here.
That's cool.
Let's take a look at the directory that we created,
what happened over there?
Now I'm going to get out of my logs here
and see where we are.
We are in the couchbase directory actually already.
The library tree is already created
because this is exactly
where all my Couchbase data is stored.
Now if I go back
in my Data Buckets, I'm going to create a new data bucket,
call it docker.
Take the defaults for the data bucket for now.
Wait for it to turn green, and there you go,
now the bucket is available and accessible to you.
In my terminal now, I can say docker container
stop db
and let's remove the container as well.
Now, if I start the container with the same volume,
pwd is where my data is being stored.
So if I start the container again,
and let's look at the logs
which show the container to be up.
All right, now the container is configured.
So,
we are back in our Couchbase web console.
If I
log in here
and if we look at the Data Buckets here,
voila, our docker bucket that we created originally
still very much is available over there.
That's because even though my container
was crashed or removed,
the data continues to exist on the host.
In this particular section, we will not talk about
how do we do distributed file systems
but there is plenty of material available on that.
In this section, essentially you saw
how you can do implicit per-container storage,
explicit per-container storage,
and per-host storage.